Hello everyone.
Welcome back to part three of the blog Klon project.
So the models are all set up from the previous lecture.
Now it's time to actually use them to quickly create some forms since we already have that forms up-I
file set up inside that blog application and what we're also going to learn that we haven't done before
is how we can actually set up the form widgets to correspond to see SS classes.
So what do I actually mean by that.
Well we've already seen something along the lines of injecting of a template tag form as underscore
P which just injects your form as paragraph.
And if you're actually using the bootstrap templates that looks OK it's just a standard bootstrap form
where you kind of get everything from top to bottom using those as paragraph tags.
But what if you actually want to style a particular widget.
I remember what I mean by widget is it actual form widget.
So something like a form button or the text area text input etc..
What if for whatever reason I want to actually take the text area widget and give it a different styling
for example give it that medium dot com styling that we're going to be using later.
Well all you have to do is add a widget attribute to the medic class.
And what this widget attribute is is actually a dictionary and you pass in some arguments or parameters
into that dictionary that link the actual widget to the class.
Later you can call in your CSSA file that class thaim and it will affect that particular widget directly.
So let's show you how to do all of this by helping over to the editor.
OK so here I am at the Editor.
There's three models up-I file is ready to go.
Remember we have a post model and scrolling down we also have a comments model.
That's what we're going to be using in the forms up-I file that we've already created.
So the first thing you need to do is say from Django import forms and once we've done that I need to
actually grab the models themselves.
There's various ways you could do this you could just say from the models to me.
I actually like having as you've heard me say before the application name and then start calling files
from that source say from blog that models import and then I'm going to import the two models we created
which was the post model and the comments model.
And then let's actually create those classes.
So I will create the post form class which is going to take forms.
Model form and then inside of this I'll have that metaclass and inside this Medich class we need to
do is actually connect the model we're using in this case.
I'm using the post model.
And then we want to also connect the fields that I want to be able to edit in this form.
So we'll just edit the author field.
So who's actually typing out this blog post.
Theoretically it should be the same person every time but maybe we'll have multiple super users so it
could be almost like a company blog where we have other super users coming in.
So we'll keep an author as a field you can edit then we only want to be able to edit the title of whatever
blog post we're using.
And of course we want to edit the text itself.
And we'll talk about those widgets in just a second.
But let's also edit the comments class or I should say the comment form so I will say comments form
as my class and then we'll say forms da model for and then what I'm going to create here is Medha and
inside of this will connect it to the comment model.
So there's the connection to the comic model and in the fields here that this person's going to be able
to edit.
Well they should be able to say who's right in the comment the author and then the actual text of the
comment itself OK.
And let me add in a couple more lines here.
So we get some space.
And finally it's time to add in these widgets so what I'm going to do is add in the widgets first to
the post form.
And again this is so that I can grab a particular field widget.
So let's say I want to add a red border to the text area box that corresponds with text.
Well how would I do that.
In that case I need to actually add in widgets.
So this goes inside of the medic class and note my indentation here.
And I create a widgets attribute that is a dictionary and for formatting purposes I'll kind of write
this over multiple lines.
But the first key is going to respond to a field.
So I have title be a field and then what I will have here is forms dot and then the widget actual name.
So in this case this is going to be a text input and then we have the attributes which is going to be
a t t r s and set that equal to.
And here we have kind of a sub dictionary and we have a class and then we can give a text input class.
So I'll be the first entry and then the other one I want to be able to edit the text.
So this how we're actually going to connect that text widget with those medium Ed..
Textarea stylings So you'll see forms dot text area.
So that's sort of which I'm doing just the giant text area and I will say 80 arest those attributes
is equal to and I'll set it with a class and then we're going to have kind of a long class name that
is attributed to the actual medium library we're going to be working with.
So later on when we actually work with the javascript and see a sense of that medium editor library
will show you how they actually got this long class name.
But for now I'll just copy paste from the notes or follow along with me.
But the classes we're going to pass here is the edible class as and you can edit it then we'll passen
medium dash editor dash text area.
So that's the actual class that's going to allow us to connect that to some sort of a medium editor.
And then we're also going to do is add in our own class Orsay post content so we're connecting this
text area attribute which is going to be our text in the blog post form and it's going to be connected
to a CSSA class.
In fact it connected to three CSSA classes.
First is the edible class.
That means we can't edit it.
That's coming from this medium editor library that we're going to be working with.
Then we have the medium editor a text area which kind of gives it the styling of the actual medium editor.
And then we have this post content which is going to be our own class.
So we're doing the exact same thing over here for the title except we're saying it's text input class.
Again that's our own class.
So the only classes that are not ours are these two right here that I'm highlighting the classes that
are ours is the text input class and then the post content class then we're going to scroll down and
do a really similar thing for the comment form.
So over here we're going to have a dictionary widgets
and I'm going to set author the first dictionary entry to be forms the it's going to be a text input
widget and that will have this attributes that's going to be a dictionary.
We'll have a connect to a class.
And in this case I'll have it just connect to the same text input class here.
So I'll say text input class so whatever C is styling this title's going to have the author will also
have it here.
So it kind of serves the same purpose relative to their actual form.
Again you could create your own class here if you wanted to if you wanted to add some specific styling
elements to the author form box of the comments themselves.
And then more importantly the actual text.
We want to connect to two forms text area in effect that is actually going to be the exact same thing
as what's up here minus this post content.
So I'm going to copy and paste this on the collapse my character ichy trees.
You can see everything.
And then I'm going to copy paste it here and then I'm going to delete this post content so that post
content class.
I'll make sure that class is only suitable for the post form versus here.
I'm just going to have it kind of be the default medium ed. classes.
So those are my two widgets and this is the main idea of you connect specific widgets to CSSA styling.
Again the main idea is just you have widgets to dictionary attribute inside of that metaclass you have
the actual field.
You'll see forms dot the actual pepple widget.
It's going to be.
And these are attributes where you have a class key and then the name of the class that eventually will
go inside your C Ss.
So since we're talking a little bit about C Ss let's set up the most basic C Ss which means we probably
want to set up a static folder.
So I will open up my directory tree here.
And this is going to go underneath right here.
We see Blug project and then we also see my site a lot of times what we've done in the past is have
the static folder line up with the same directory as my site and blog.
But when we're talking about advanced class based views we also discussed having template and static
folders inside of the actual application folder.
So that's the kind of following we're going to do here since that's a little more common in the real
world and doesn't line up exactly to tutorials of the Gengel documentation but a lot of times in the
real world each particular application is going to come with its own set of static directories and template
directories which kind of makes sense if you want these applications to be more plug and play that way
in case you ever want to have some sort of blog application.
You can quickly grab everything from this previous project and insert it or inject it into an other
much larger project.
So we're going to do it inside of this blog folder.
I'm going to create a new directory so saying you folder and this folder is going to be called static
and inside of the static folder.
I'll create two new folders so I'll have a folder for my C Ss and then set up static.
I will also have a folder for my drive a script and will call that Jesus and inside of C assess what
we're going to do is we're not going to mess with it right now but we'll set up the file that we'll
be using.
So we'll say new file and we'll just call it blog C Ss and we'll be working a lot more of the CSSA towards
the end.
But right now we'll just keep it blank.
But make sure that the static files are all there.
And since we're adding the static directories it's a good idea to come over to the settings that py
file and make sure the static is all set up down there.
So let's come over to my site settings up-I scroll all the way down because usually that's where we're
going to put all that static stuff.
So all the way down here I have the static you're out.
That's totally fine.
We do have it under a folder named static.
But what I'm going to do here say static underscore root is equal to OS stop half that join as we've
done before and I will join the base their victory with the static folder.
That way knows where to look for stuff and then what I'm also going to do is create those template folders
or directories.
We haven't actually created a templates yet but we will soon.
And since we're missing out the settings that PI file manager will do it all now.
So at the same level of the static underneath blog I will right click Create a new folder and I will
call this templates and then inside of this templates lets have two directories all have a new folder
that shares the same name as the application Raemer we talked about this in class based views where
the templates folder goes underneath the application underneath that you have the application name again
a little repetitive but that's usually seen the real world and I'm going to create a new folder here
and we'll call this registration and when we actually begin dealing with registering users and authorization
we'll be dealing for a little template there some sort of log in page template but since we have the
template set up might as well take care of that as well.
So what I'm going to do is I like doing this the top you can really do this anywhere you want in the
settings that PI file but just to kind of keep in line of what we have been doing or create the template
DJR here.
And I will say stop half that.
Join passen the base directory and when I have to do here is actually point to the templates we're using.
So I'll be using blog
templates blog.
Save that and then scrolling down here past installed apps past middleware.
Here's the template.
Remember this can take a list of directories.
We only have 1 templates but if we had other applications we could be passing these as well.
But in this case I'll just person template underscore Diyar and that's all there is to it.
So now I save this and we have our setting up py file.
Now we're not completely done with the settings that py file.
Later on when we actually talk about logons we'll need to do a little edit here so I will add this in
right now.
So scrolling all the way down and we kind of talked a little bit about this during the authorization
lectures but we need a log in underscore re direct underscore u r l is equal to and we're just going
to in quotes put a single forward slash.
That way we have some sort of redirection to the home page.
Once a person has done logging in OK and we're going to talk a lot more about users logging in and all
that stuff then we actually get to that.
But so far the main idea of this lecture besides setting up the settings up hi fi a little further was
taking care of this forms up py file.
So again two main things we did here.
Setting up the forms that py file learning how to actually use these widgets in order to attribute C
S S classes to particular widgets and then we did a little more in the settings up-I file and set up
our static and templates folders.
OK that's it for this lecture.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next one.